so the greatest conservation threat to
giant pandas is habitat loss and anytime
you have a situation where habitat
encroachment by humans is is a threat to
a wildlife population we need to have an
understanding also how human noise and
activities might disturb animals so one
focus of our research program is to
better understand how human disturbance
and noise might impact giant pandas both
in the wild and here at the zoo so we
have been embarking on this hearing
study for the past two years and we've
gotten some fantastic data as the keeper
I found it quite challenging because
what we have to do is our part in this
is we have to train the pandas to go
into a soundproof booth with us in the
booth with the pandas and then basically
have to train them to respond just tones
and sounds and put their nose to a
target after they put their nose to a
target then we use a clicker as a bridge
a reward the noise tells the Panda that
they have done the behavior correctly
and then a food reward will follow
afterwards but soon when she she really
gets into it and Jen Jen I had a feeling
she was going to be a star that was
really exciting for us because she is
definitely the youngest bear to have
ever participated in a study such as
that it so we not only got a good sense
of what a very young bear could hear we
also learned that that young pandas are
very smart and they're able to
participate in the study that's quite
challenging and requires them to really
think about what they're doing and
interact with their keepers on a really
detailed level now one of the things as
the trainer that we do is that I do
control when the computer sends us a
tone the trick is to this whole thing is
that I never know when a tone is going
to be played
sometimes a tone may be played sometimes
a tone may not be played so the Panda
has to get rewarded for either sitting
and not reacting to a tone or reacting
to a tone when a tone is played but it
gets even harder than that
the tones will be played out of our
human hearing range a lot of people ask
me well how do you know that the Panda
has responded to the tone properly well
there's a little light - below my feet
that will flash that let me know that a
tone has been played and what we do is
we play tones that we know the loudness
of we know the frequency or pitch of
those tones these are measured sounds
that we play to them and they tell us
basically whether they've heard it or
not in the doctor's office you might
raise a finger to tell the doctor that
you that you heard the tone what we
asked the pandas to do is put their nose
on a target and it's a very clear and
unambiguous move that they make and if
they do it correctly they get a treat
and this way we can really sequentially
present tones at progressively lower and
lower loudness and when we get to the
point where they can't hear that tone
anymore that's when we know we've hit
their threshold sue-lin was a really
important panda for us in terms of the
scientific research she's the first
giant panda for which we have the
comprehensive hearing data on we've
learned that pandas actually have quite
sensitive hearing at some some
frequencies that are higher than we
expected and so we were really really
excited to have the time with her and to
get that data so suelen and Jen Jen just
made their trip to China and now they're
safely at the Wolong Panda Conservation
Center and we were of course very sad to
see them go but we're really excited
about what what their future holds good
girl